there are still lots of things about
space that we may never be able to
answer like as time travel possible or
are aliens living somewhere else in the
Milky Way but there is one thing I
believe about space space is trying to
kill me space isn't out to get me
personally it's also trying to kill you
and everybody else think about it space
doesn't naturally have what we need to
survive when we travel there no air it's
too hot or too cold no ozone to protect
us from those nasty UV rays either this
all sounds bad but what can space really
do to me if I stay on earth what we need
to understand is that objects in space
can cause people to think their days are
numbered even when there are events on
earth they can burn or kill us before
something from space does so what are
the odds that one of these objects will
really affect earth and you and me in
our lifetime well we can take what we
know about the universe to try and
figure that out you might have heard
stories about asteroids hitting the
earth that would be pretty bad
scientists think asteroids might have
killed off most of the dinosaurs it
sounds like something we should worry
about right
well astronomers can now watch asteroids
in space and see them coming using
complex computer models to predict the
deadly rocks path for a while
the reported odds that asteroid Apophis
would strike earth in 2036 were once one
in 625
but after updating their data
astronomers now say the chances are
extremely low okay what about the Sun
Hollywood movies like to pick on our Sun
by showing earth destroyed by solar
flares or the Sun dying out which would
cause an earth to freeze astronomers
predict our Sun contains enough gas to
make energy for another three to five
billion years so in three to five
billion years a people still exist on
earth they'll have to deal with that
but today well we're safe sometimes the
Sun does shoot flares at Earth but the
magnetic field surrounding our planet
blocks most of that radiation the
radiation that does get through creates
things like the aurora borealis gigantic
solar flares can mess with our
satellites and electrical equipment but
the chances of it killing you are pretty
slim okay what about that supermassive
black hole in the middle of our galaxy
what happens to earth and us when it
pulls us in after all it is supermassive
nope not going to happen
that's one big object that can't bother
us how can we be so sure our solar
system is on the edge of the Milky Way
while the nearest supermassive black
hole is about 26,000 light-years from
Earth that means we aren't on that black
hole's menu so you still think space
objects are trying to kill you even
after what I've told you so far I think
I've even convinced myself that odds are
really good that space of the objects up
there won't kill me after all but I'll
probably keep looking up just to make
sure nothing is headed my way